README.md, before:

jMonkeyEngine Task Loader [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Kendanware/jme3-taskloader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Kendanware/jme3-taskloader)
==========================

The task loader provides a mechanism for performing tasks and hooking up a callback to potentially render a loading screen.

- - -

# Simple Usage

Lets create a loading app state which will be in control of the tasks that need to be performed before the game can proceed
to the next state.

```java
// Hint: This class could also implement something like a nifty gui ScreenController and provide access to GUI elements.
public class LoadingAppState extends AbstractAppState implements ProgressCallback {

    private LoadingManager loadingManager;
    private AppStateManager stateManager;
    private final AppState nextApplicationState;

    public LoadingAppState(final AppState nextApplicationState) {
        this.nextApplicationState = nextApplicationState;
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize(final AppStateManager stateManager, final Application application) {
        super.initialize(stateManager, application);
        this.stateManager = stateManager;

        // Create a LoadingManager and register tasks with it.
        loadingManager = new LoadingManager(application, this);

        // Hint: It's nicer to extract loading tasks into separate class files instead of using lambdas for cleaner, more organized code.

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Load the terrain data
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Load weather app state
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Create input mappings.
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Set up camera position etc.
        });

        // Tell the LoadingManager to start loading tasks.
        loadingManager.start();
    }

    @Override
    public void progress(final String message, final boolean loadingCompleted, final float progress) {
        // Some gui element which can take the progress value.
        progressBar.setProgress(progress);

        if (loadingCompleted) {
            stateManager.detach(this);
            stateManager.attach(nextApplicationState);
            return;
        }
    }
}
```

- - - 

# Maven

You will need to configure a repository in your pom.xml first.

    <repository>
        <id>oss-libs-release</id>
        <url>http://oss.jfrog.org/artifactory/libs-release/</url>
    </repository>

    <repository>
        <id>oss-libs-snapshots</id>
        <url>http://oss.jfrog.org/artifactory/libs-snapshot/</url>
        <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
        </snapshots>
    </repository>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.kendanware.jme3</groupId>
        <artifactId>taskloader</artifactId>
        <version>${jme3taskloader.version}</version>
    </dependency>

Commit message:

Added more documentation to readme.

README.md, after:

jMonkeyEngine Task Loader [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Kendanware/jme3-taskloader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Kendanware/jme3-taskloader)
==========================

The task loader provides a mechanism for performing tasks and hooking up a callback to potentially render a loading screen.

- - -

# Simple Usage

Lets create a loading app state which will be in control of the tasks that need to be performed before the game can proceed
to the next state.

```java
// Hint: This class could also implement something like a nifty gui ScreenController and provide access to GUI elements.
public class LoadingAppState extends AbstractAppState implements ProgressCallback {

    private LoadingManager loadingManager;
    private AppStateManager stateManager;
    private final AppState nextApplicationState;

    public LoadingAppState(final AppState nextApplicationState) {
        this.nextApplicationState = nextApplicationState;
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize(final AppStateManager stateManager, final Application application) {
        super.initialize(stateManager, application);
        this.stateManager = stateManager;

        // Create a LoadingManager and register tasks with it.
        loadingManager = new LoadingManager(application, this);

        // Hint: It's nicer to extract loading tasks into separate class files instead of using lambdas for cleaner, more organized code.

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Load the terrain data
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Load weather app state
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Create input mappings.
        });

        loadingManager.registerForLoading(application1 -> {
            // Set up camera position etc.
        });

        // Tell the LoadingManager to start loading tasks.
        loadingManager.start();
    }

    @Override
    public void progress(final String message, final boolean loadingCompleted, final float progress) {
        // Some gui element which can take the progress value.
        progressBar.setProgress(progress);

        if (loadingCompleted) {
            stateManager.detach(this);
            stateManager.attach(nextApplicationState);
            return;
        }
    }
}
```

- - -

# Loading Tasks

A loading task is defined as a small unit of isolated work that needs to be performed. This means that usually your tasks
will be really short in lines of code. Perhaps it will load an asset like a model and setup a couple of extra attributes
on it. Perhaps the task will load your game world. Perhaps it will initialise your post-process filters. The list goes on.

Remember that the task loading is fully asynchronous, this means that loading tasks will executed on their own thread. Even
if you decide to only use one thread for loading the tasks they are still executed asynchronously to the main rendering
thread in JME. In order to talk nicely to the rendering thread you will have to ensure that any code as described by
the JME threading model document is executed through a Callable on the rendering thread. See
[jMonkeyEngine Wiki - Multi Threading](http://wiki.jmonkeyengine.org/doku.php/jme3:advanced:multithreading) for more information.

- - - 

# Maven

This should speak for itself.

```xml
    <repository>
        <id>oss-libs-release</id>
        <url>http://oss.jfrog.org/artifactory/libs-release/</url>
    </repository>

    <repository>
        <id>oss-libs-snapshots</id>
        <url>http://oss.jfrog.org/artifactory/libs-snapshot/</url>
        <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
        </snapshots>
    </repository>

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.kendanware.jme3</groupId>
        <artifactId>taskloader</artifactId>
        <version>${jme3taskloader.version}</version>
    </dependency>
```
